Code Book
=========

This file provides details on the tidy data set generated by the attached R script, run_analysis.R.

Details on the source data can be found in the README.txt file included in the download files (https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip).

The included R script, run_analysis.R reforms the following steps:

1) Read in the feature names from features.txt.  (561 variables)

2) Clean the feature names by removing dashes  and parentheses

3) Extract only features representing mean and standard deviation measures

4) Read in activity labels from activity_labels.txt

	These include:
	
		* WALKING
		* WALKING_UPSTAIRS
		* WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
		* SITTING
		* STANDING
		* LAYING
		
5) Read in test data from test/X_test.txt

6) Extract only those columns representing mean and standard deviation measures

7) Read in the list of test subjects corresponding to each reading

8) Read in the list of test activity labels and convert activity codes to appropriate label

9) Bind the test subject and activity labels to the test data

10) Read in the training data from train/X_train.txt

11) Extract only those columns representing mean and standard deviation measures

12) Read in the list of training subjects corresponding to each reading

13) Read in the list of training activity labels and convert activity codes to appropriate label

14) Bind the training subject and activity labels to the test data 

15) Merge the test and training data

16) Produce a new summary table by calculating the mean of each data column by activity and subject

17) Drop extraneous columns

18) Rename grouping columns to "Activity" and "Subject"

19) Export final tidy data table to CSV file in the working directory

The following provides an explanation of each column of the final tidy dataset:


- Activity - the activity being measured
- Subject - the number of the human subject



3. tBodyAccmeanX
4. tBodyAccmeanY
5. tBodyAccmeanZ
6. tBodyAccstdX
7. tBodyAccstdY
8. tBodyAccstdZ
9. tGravityAccmeanX
10. tGravityAccmeanY
11. tGravityAccmeanZ
12. tGravityAccstdX
13. tGravityAccstdY
14. tGravityAccstdZ
15. tBodyAccJerkmeanX
16. tBodyAccJerkmeanY
17. tBodyAccJerkmeanZ
18. tBodyAccJerkstdX
19. tBodyAccJerkstdY
20. tBodyAccJerkstdZ
21. tBodyGyromeanX
22. tBodyGyromeanY
23. tBodyGyromeanZ
24. tBodyGyrostdX
25. tBodyGyrostdY
26. tBodyGyrostdZ
27. tBodyGyroJerkmeanX
28. tBodyGyroJerkmeanY
29. tBodyGyroJerkmeanZ
30. tBodyGyroJerkstdX
31. tBodyGyroJerkstdY
32. tBodyGyroJerkstdZ
33. tBodyAccMagmean
34. tBodyAccMagstd
35. tGravityAccMagmean
36. tGravityAccMagstd
37. tBodyAccJerkMagmean
38. tBodyAccJerkMagstd
39. tBodyGyroMagmean
40. tBodyGyroMagstd
41. tBodyGyroJerkMagmean
42. tBodyGyroJerkMagstd
43. fBodyAccmeanX
44. fBodyAccmeanY
45. fBodyAccmeanZ
46. fBodyAccstdX
47. fBodyAccstdY
48. fBodyAccstdZ
49. fBodyAccmeanFreqX
50. fBodyAccmeanFreqY
51. fBodyAccmeanFreqZ
52. fBodyAccJerkmeanX
53. fBodyAccJerkmeanY
54. fBodyAccJerkmeanZ
55. fBodyAccJerkstdX
56. fBodyAccJerkstdY
57. fBodyAccJerkstdZ
58. fBodyAccJerkmeanFreqX
59. fBodyAccJerkmeanFreqY
60. fBodyAccJerkmeanFreqZ
61. fBodyGyromeanX
62. fBodyGyromeanY
63. fBodyGyromeanZ
64. fBodyGyrostdX
65. fBodyGyrostdY
66. fBodyGyrostdZ
67. fBodyGyromeanFreqX
68. fBodyGyromeanFreqY
69. fBodyGyromeanFreqZ
70. fBodyAccMagmean
71. fBodyAccMagstd
72. fBodyAccMagmeanFreq
73. fBodyBodyAccJerkMagmean
74. fBodyBodyAccJerkMagstd
75. fBodyBodyAccJerkMagmeanFreq
76. fBodyBodyGyroMagmean
77. fBodyBodyGyroMagstd
78. fBodyBodyGyroMagmeanFreq
79. fBodyBodyGyroJerkMagmean
80. fBodyBodyGyroJerkMagstd
81. fBodyBodyGyroJerkMagmeanFreq
82. angletBodyAccMeangravity
83. angletBodyAccJerkMeangravityMean
84. angletBodyGyroMeangravityMean
85. angletBodyGyroJerkMeangravityMean
86. angleXgravityMean
87. angleYgravityMean
88. angleZgravityMean